Analysts do this statically
in one Excel sheet
that they refresh manually
every week, every quarter.
Instead of doing that,
BCI has instead used our Artifact feature
to connect directly to
S&P and FactSet data sets
so that the artifact is a live dashboard
of how these metrics
compare against each other,
and with one simple prompt to Claude,
you can easily update it,
and these artifacts are also shared
with their managing directors
who are directly interfacing
with these platforms as well.
So I think we're really seeing
not just acceleration of work,
but a way for the work to
actually be transformed.
- Hey, my name's Alexander Bricken,
and I lead our applied AI Engineering team
for Financial Services.
Today, we're gonna be talking to you
about Claude for Finance,
and I'm joined by my colleague Nick.
- Hey, my name is Nick Lin,
and I lead product for Claude
for Financial Services.
I'm also a recovering investment banker
and private equity investor.
A lot of these problems
we're about to talk about
are very near and dear to my heart,
so I'm very excited, Alexander.
- Awesome.
So, Nick, my first question for you is
how do you feel about the
shift in the AI landscape
for financial services these days?
- You know, I've been with Anthropic
for a little bit over
a year and a half now.
That was before Claude 3,
so I think the enterprise AI landscape
has changed significantly,
especially in the past few months.
What I am really noticing is that
there is a fundamental
shift from curiosity,
observing from the sidelines,
to actually starting to build
and deploy into production.
Now, as we all know, coding
is one of the first products
and first domains within AI
with really strong product-market fit.
I think we're starting to see this
really extend to other verticals
as well, including finance.
For example, NBIM or the
Norwegian Sovereign Wealth Fund,
one of our largest customers,
they have about 9,000 portfolio companies.
What they've done is they've
built integrations on their own
with things like model context protocol,
so that all of their portfolio managers
are querying these
integrations every single day
to get insights into their PortCos.
So I think we're really starting to see
analysts spend a lot less time
on the mundane, manual,
tedious parts of the work,
and start to focus on what they
really care about, you know,
which is building relationships,
meeting with their customers,
and actually understanding
the business models of the
companies they're investing in.
- Yeah, that really resonates
from my standpoint as well
as an applied AI person.
Whenever I go and interact with customers,
a lot of the time, last year, let's say,
they would start with
building an AI chat feature.
Like, they'd have a bunch
of models represented,
and they would select one,
maybe a random business user,
and they would try to work
with it and just chat with it.
Eventually, now, we've seen
things like MCP come out
where the chat has become
so much more powerful.
You can interact with the
systems you care about,
and I think that's really
exciting specifically for finance
because, often, there are
just so many product surfaces
that folks have to interact with.
- 100%.
- If you give a model a tool these days,
often, the model's
intelligent enough to know
what that tool does
given the tool description
and the tool name,
but equally, the model has
certain primitives baked into it,
like the security that we try to bake into
the way the model
interacts with the world.
So we train our models to be
helpful, harmless, and honest,
and often, that's a reflection of
the data that they interpret
and the output that it
basically corresponds to.
So I think that's probably what
you're referring to as well
in that, like, the model
is generally intelligent,
and so if you give it
these different layers,
you can really see some cool results.
- You know, safety is something
that you touched upon.
That is so foundational
to everything we do.
- Yeah.
- It's about securely
deploying these solutions
into enterprise environments.
It's about making sure that
the models can accurately
answer the questions
with the right level of
understanding of those problems
and fidelity, and third is
actually giving our users
the trust, the verification,
the auditability
to understand these results.
So I think we think about
all three of those components of safety.
- Yeah, I mean, speaking of, right?
Anthropic was founded on
the principles of AI safety.
It was a research org from scratch.
I'm curious.
How have we gone from being a research org
to releasing a distinguished
product in financial services?
- In my mind, Anthropic
really aims at building models
that can be safely deployed to solve
the most complex and difficult
problems in the world, right?
We're state-of-the-art
when it comes to code.
0.5% of the world's population
are software engineers,
so that is just one sliver of
these really complex, difficult problems
we can really start solving, right?
They really exist everywhere
else in the world.
Code is so foundational
to every single part of a company, right?
It is how a company is run.
So that means that
Claude is really great at
interacting with more complex systems,
being able to expose its
thinking and its logic,
and that's why it's great
at finance as well, right?
Finance are complex problems
deployed into regulated verticals
that need verification, auditability,
and ultimately, accuracy really matters.
- Financial analysts these
days spend a lot of time
getting down to, like,
the pixel perfect level of
let's say a PowerPoint deck
or an Excel model, right?
You can't get anything wrong,
and it's funny, now that
we're in this paradigm
where models can do something similar,
but using the capabilities they have
to write really structured logic,
and so that's actually what we've found
language models to be good at,
what we've trained them on,
and that ability to do that,
it feels like it's just being abstracted
into so many other domains,
like creating Excel spreadsheets
or like creating PowerPoints,
and so, yeah, it's just been, like,
super just kind of
striking, at least to me,
to see how many domains
the logic and reasoning of these models
actually ends up touching.
- Ultimately, these are digital systems
that we interact with
every single day, right?
The fact that Claude is great at code
gives it a flexible skill and a shortcut
to do all of these really cool,
interesting things, right?
Our file creation feature that
was launched a few weeks ago
that enables Claude to create
Excel documents and PowerPoint
is essentially Claude
accessing a virtual machine
within which it can run
Python code at scale
to edit, analyze, and
create Excel documents
and create these perfect DCF models,
which I think is super
exciting for us, right?
So I think there's a lot of other domains
that code can start really unlocking.
- What's different to Claude for Finance
versus other products on the
market in financial services?
- You know, there are three
verbs I think about a lot
that governs what I want to
build for Claude for Finance,
and these are retrieve,
analyze, and create.
Starting with retrieval,
many of the research agents on the market
has seen, you know, quite
a lot of maturity, right?
Large language models are
fantastic at digging into
large pools of data
and gathering insights,
and can read, you know,
5,000 probably times faster than humans,
but what we want to do with finance is
making sure that these
systems can connect to
all of the core data sources
that finance analysts work in.
In finance, the ability
to uncover insights
faster than your
competitors and your peers,
that's a really key advantage.
Now, downstream from that,
it's great that we can
retrieve this information
and connect to it, but the
ability to do analysis at scale,
either through code or
through spreadsheets,
is so foundational as well.
Financial models themselves,
they're not just these
beautiful Excel sheets, right?
They're a way for finance analysts
to inject their own judgment
of what the future looks like
and what the proper valuation looks like
for that company, right?
So, with that in mind, we want
Claude to be really good at
understanding these core finance concepts
and manipulate systems
like Excel and spreadsheets
to be able to do that calculation.
And then the third part
is creation, right?
We're all social creatures
within the enterprise, right?
We do our work to be shared with others,
so the outputs themselves
in the form of spreadsheets,
you know, PowerPoint documents, Word,
doing this in a way that is
client-ready, boardroom-ready,
is really important.
So we really want to start
pushing Claude's capabilities
to be able to do that as well
so that it is an end-to-end
agentic autonomous system.
- That makes a lot of sense.
I feel like we build these primitives
and then they almost end up snowballing.
So you have, like, the
retrieval step, right?
You build an MCP server
to connect to one system,
but then if you take the
data from that system,
maybe it connects to some
other system in a unique way.
Like, you get data from
Snowflake, let's say.
You find an ID in there
and you need to connect it
to your Salesforce instance.
You can easily do that with
some of those primitives
that we've built on the retrieval side,
but then it sort of continues to snowball.
You get analysis where Claude
can write a bunch of code
and essentially piece together
some of that information,
and then finally the creation is
even take that one step further
and put it into the environment
that someone cares about,
sending that post request,
back to the API example,
to a system where an analyst
or an operator can see
the information that Claude
has reasoned through.
- So let's talk a little bit more about
what is actually Claude for Finance?
How does it work? What
makes it so special?
- So there are three layers
that we think about in our solution.
The models, the agentic
capabilities, and the platform,
starting with the models themselves.
Fundamentally, we are
a research lab, right?
Everything we do really
aims at making Claude
the best model for financial services.
Now, finance presents
some interesting challenges to us, right?
Code is something that we
can test every single day
as software engineers
and product managers,
but there are very few investment bankers
within these four walls of Anthropic.
So here's where we're
really excited to work with
early customers like BCI,
Perella Weinberg, and NBIM,
to really let us know,
what are the use cases
they really care about?
What does good look like?
And then help us, much more
importantly, uncover those gaps
that we can bring back
into the research process.
The second thing is on
the product side, right?
Agentic capabilities are
essentially the code that we write
to enable users to
interact with the models.
We've built capabilities
like deep research.
Now, we're really investing
in being able to embed Claude
in all of the core surfaces you work in,
not just Claude for
Enterprise or Claude.ai
but also the browser
extension, Excel, Chrome,
and other surfaces
that our analysts and enterprise customers
work with every single day.
The last piece is we want to, again,
build a really flexible platform
that can be tailored and deployed
very easily for our customers.
That's why we've been
spending a lot of time
with industry partners like
S&P, FactSet, PitchBook,
to build these integrations
so that these agents can
be as powerful as possible.
- So I'm curious. How
has adoption been, right?
Who's using this? Why are
they excited about it?
Walk us through that.
- As I mentioned before,
we're really seeing
pockets of adoption across
the entire industry.
I'm often asked, you know,
which sub-verticals do you
see AI adoption in in finance?
I think it's much less
about sub-verticals,
but much more about the
culture that our customers
have really engendered, right?
Which requires a good combination of
top-down encouragement and
adoption to lower the barriers,
but also a bottoms-up
experimentation culture, right?
To try all of these tools out there
to figure out what makes sense.
With that in mind, I think
some of the main customers
that we've seen strong adoption
from, BCI, for example,
they've sort of fundamentally
transformed the way they work.
There are these things
called comps analysis
that analysts do,
which basically means
you're comparing comps,
financial and operational metrics
for all of these different companies,
to figure out whether they're
trading at the right value.
Analysts do this statically
in one Excel sheet
that they refresh manually
every week, every quarter.
Instead of doing that,
BCI has instead used our Artifact feature
to connect directly to
S&P and FactSet data sets
so that the artifact is a live dashboard
of how these metrics
compare against each other,
and with one simple prompt to Claude,
you can easily update it,
and these artifacts are also shared
with their managing directors
who are directly interfacing
with these platforms as well.
So I think we're really seeing
not just acceleration of work,
but a way for the work to
actually be transformed.
- Memory is such an a fundamental piece of
how humans basically
exist in the world, right?
You have to memorize things to, like,
know where you put your
keys last, for example.
How are we building that into our models
and why is that important
for financial services?
- The way that we think about
how we work with our customers,
as I mentioned before,
there's very little that
we can internally test
for these finance use cases.
- Right.
- Is to, again, work really closely
with enterprise customers to understand
where things are working and
where they're not, right?
And memory systems is something
that's really important
to allow Claude to understand
and maintain context
across all of these
different tools and surfaces
that it works in.
Claude is in Claude.ai,
in Excel, in the browser,
interacting with FactSet, S&P,
the ability to understand patterns,
understand preferences for
that, you know, DCF template
that you want Claude to remember.
All of these things are really important
to just make sure that
Claude stays, and in turn,
that continually gets better
through its interactions with you.
- And so, like, over time,
you can imagine someone
prompting the model, like,
"Hey, you got this
formula slightly wrong,"
and then Claude has some
way of storing that memory,
whether it be a file system
or it's implicit, et cetera,
which is pretty awesome.
- Yeah.
- I'm excited for that.
- Or if, you know, the user and analyst
really wants to use S&P
for a specific piece
of EBITDA calculation,
Claude will actually remember
those preferences too,
just, like, you know, a good intern would.
- Cool. So we've talked a
lot about Claude for Finance.
I'm curious, in your opinion,
what's next for our
product and research orgs
in relation to making
Claude better for finance?
- Yeah, you know, taking a step back,
Anthropic is enterprise
focused, enterprise first.
The only way for us to deliver
outcomes to the enterprise
is to focus on specific domains.
Finance is one of the most
important domains for Anthropic
across the entire stack.
Research, product, and go to market.
Starting with research, we're
finally starting to invest in
both specific pre-training
and post-training for finance.
On the product side, three
things I'm really excited about.
One is going much deeper
into specific sub-verticals.
Private equity has very
different needs from hedge funds
and insurance firms and investment banks.
We want to really start
understanding and peeling back
the nuances of those workflows
and make sure that the
components we're building
fully serve those workflows.
We're also excited about
the ability to have
Claude everywhere, right?
Not just in the browser,
but within Excel, within PowerPoint.
On PowerPoint and Excel, I think
we still have a lot of room
to improve the quality of those outputs.
So, excited to work again
really closely with research
and bring these capabilities
into the product.
On the partnership side,
it's really important for us
to work closely with the industry.
It's been really encouraging
to see the fact that
MCP servers have only
been out for six months,
and major industry leaders
like S&P and FactSet
have already published
functional, great versions
of their own MCP servers.
We want to keep bringing
the industry together,
including some of the recent
announcements we've made.
The last piece is
working really closely with our
enterprise customers, right?
Fundamentally, that's how
we work together, right?
To translate what their needs are
and help us build the research
and product capabilities
to meet those needs.
- I definitely agree with that,
because not everyone comes from
a financial services background
like you at Anthropic,
and so I feel like we learn the most
from the customers that
we're going deep with,
specifically when they're
designing evals, for example.
That gives us so much signal about
how the model actually
works in production,
and I think that level of collaboration is
what we're going after
with Claude for Finance.
- I think that's the main thing
I would encourage our enterprise
customers to think about.
You know, evals sound like
these mystical concepts,
but they're really simple.
They are tasks you care about
and problems you wanna solve,
and an articulation of what
good looks like for those tasks.
It's really important
for enterprise customers
to be thoughtful about these problems
rather than thinking about,
"Oh, I need to infuse AI into
every part of my business,"
and that's how we can partner
really closely with enterprise customers.
We bring those evals directly
into the training process,
directly into the product pipeline,
so that we can deliver these
capabilities to our customers.
- 100%. Well, thank you so much, Nick.
This was fantastic. I
appreciate you taking the time.
- Thanks for having me, Alexander.